Port over .NET Options Pattern article to finalize Microsoft Extensions fundamentals (#20813)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/extensions/options.md

```csharp
IConfigurationRoot configurationRoot = configuration.Build();

var options =
    configurationRoot.GetSection(nameof(TransientFaultHandlingOptions))
        .Get<TransientFaultHandlingOptions>();

Console.WriteLine($"TransientFaultHandlingOptions.Enabled={options.Enabled}");
Console.WriteLine($"TransientFaultHandlingOptions.AutoRetryDelay={options.AutoRetryDelay}");
```

In the preceding code, by default, changes to the JSON configuration file after the app has started are read.

An alternative approach when using the ***options pattern*** is to bind the `"TransientFaultHandlingOptions"` section and add it to the [dependency injection service container](dependency-injection.md). In the following code, `TransientFaultHandlingOptions` is added to the service container with <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.OptionsConfigurationServiceCollectionExtensions.Configure%2A> and bound to configuration:

```csharp
services.Configure<TransientFaultHandlingOptions>(
    configurationRoot.GetSection(

>         nameof(TransientFaultHandlingOptions)));

Author: ```suggestion
        key: nameof(TransientFaultHandlingOptions)));
```

```

In the preceding code, changes to the JSON configuration file after the app has started are read.

## IOptionsMonitor

The following code registers a configuration instance which `TransientFaultHandlingOptions` binds against.

```csharp
services.Configure<TransientFaultHandlingOptions>(
    configurationRoot.GetSection(
        nameof(TransientFaultHandlingOptions)));
```

The following example uses <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Options.IOptionsMonitor%601>:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/configuration/console-json/MonitorService.cs":::

In the preceding code, by default, changes to the JSON configuration file after the app has started are read.

## Named options support using IConfigureNamedOptions

Named options:

- Are useful when multiple configuration sections bind to the same properties.
- Are case-sensitive.

Consider the following *appsettings.json* file:

```json
{
  "Features": {
    "Personalize": {
      "Enabled": true,
      "ApiKey": "aGEgaGEgeW91IHRob3VnaHQgdGhhdCB3YXMgcmVhbGx5IHNvbWV0aGluZw=="
    },
    "WeatherStation": {
      "Enabled": true,
      "ApiKey": "QXJlIHlvdSBhdHRlbXB0aW5nIHRvIGhhY2sgdXM/"
    }
  }
}
```

> Rather than creating two classes to bind `TopItem:Month` and `TopItem:Year`,

Author: ```suggestion
Rather than creating two classes to bind `Features:Personalize` and `Features:WeatherStation`,
```

The following code applies a more complex validation rule using a delegate:

```csharp
services.AddOptions<SettingsOptions>()
    .Bind(Configuration.GetSection(SettingsOptions.Settings))
    .ValidateDataAnnotations()
    .Validate(config =>
    {
        if (config.Scale != 0)
        {
            return config.VerbosityLevel > config.Scale;
        }

        return true;
    }, "VerbosityLevel must be > than Scale.");
```

### IValidateOptions for complex validation

The following class implements <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Options.IValidateOptions%601>:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/configuration/console-json/ValidateSettingsOptions.cs":::

`IValidateOptions` enables moving the validation code into a class.

Using the preceding code, validation is enabled in `ConfigureServices` with the following code:

```csharp
services.Configure<SettingsOptions>(
    Configuration.GetSection(
        SettingsOptions.Settings));
services.TryAddEnumerable(
    ServiceDescriptor.Singleton
        <IValidateOptions<SettingsOptions>, ValidateSettingsOptions>());
```

## Options post-configuration

> Set post-configuration with <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Options.IPostConfigureOptions%601>. Post-configuration runs after all <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Options.IConfigureOptions%601> configuration occurs:

Reviewer: What is an example of a scenario where post-configuration is useful?
